# Service Related File Collector

This component is used to collect C++ files related to Android native system services. Specifically, those files are related to

- top-level and multi-level interfaces.
- standard parcelable and (light)flattenable structures.
- misc functions that have a parcel parameter, e.g., setSchedPolicy(data).
- special parcelable structures that do not use `readFromParcel` or `writeToParcel` method.

For files related to top-level interfaces, multi-level interfaces, standard parcelable, and (light)flattenable structures, we can collect them directly using the following command.

```bash
python collector.py
```

> Currently, we exclude the file generated by the AIDL tool for 32-bit programs as we are testing 64-bit mobile phones. And it won't affect the completeness of the collected interfaces and related files as the corresponding 64-bit files are also generated as far as we see.

However, we do not know the information about misc functions and special parcelable structures in the beginning. Besides, we should collect them recursively as a misc function may call another misc function. So we can collect the files related to them as follows
1. Run `python collector.py` to collect related files.
2. Use interface model extractor to extract interface model. During this process, the interface model extractor will record the misc functions and special parcelable structures. These information will be stored in `misc_parcel_related_function_storage_location` and  `special_parcelable_function_storage_location` as described in the `fans.cfg`.
3. If there are no new functions found, stop. Otherwise, go to step1. 

> Currently, this repo already contains information about misc functions and special parcelable structures in Android 9.0.0_r46.

From another perspective, it is worth noting that even AOSP is led by Google, there still are some codes that are not standard. If these codes are standard, we could run `python collector.py` to collect all files related to Android native system services once.